docs/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 0
description: How to install Mapperly.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import Conditional from '@site/src/components/Conditional';
import useDocusaurusContext from '@docusaurus/useDocusaurusContext';

# Installation

## Add the NuGet Package to your project

All you need to do, to install Mapperly is to add a NuGet reference pointing to the package [`Riok.Mapperly`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Riok.Mapperly).

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="csproj" label="PackageReference" default>
      <CodeBlock language="xml">{`<PackageReference Include="Riok.Mapperly" Version="${useDocusaurusContext().siteConfig.customFields.mapperlyVersion}" ExcludeAssets="runtime" PrivateAssets="all" />`}</CodeBlock>
  </TabItem>
<TabItem value="dotnet-cli" label=".NET CLI">

```bash
dotnet add package Riok.Mapperly
```

:::info
To remove the runtime dependency of Mapperly add
`ExcludeAssets="runtime"` and `PrivateAssets="all"`
to the resulting `PackageReference`.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="pkg-manager" label="Package Manager">

```powershell
Install-Package Riok.Mapperly
```

:::info
To remove the runtime dependency of Mapperly add
`ExcludeAssets="runtime"` and `PrivateAssets="all"`
to the resulting `PackageReference`.
:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Conditional condition={!useDocusaurusContext().siteConfig.customFields.environment.stable}>

:::warning
This is a prerelease version of Mapperly and is not subject to semantic release.
The API may break in any prerelease.
Checkout the latest stable version [here](https://mapperly.riok.app).
:::

</Conditional>

### Preserving the attributes at runtime

Mapperly removes the attribute references at compile time by default (they have the `ConditionalAttribute`).
If you want to preserve the attribute references at runtime
you can set the MSBuild variable `MapperlyAbstractionsScope` to `runtime`.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <MapperlyAbstractionsScope>runtime</MapperlyAbstractionsScope>
</PropertyGroup>
```

:::info
When preserving the attribute usages, the Mapperly package reference needs to include the runtime assets.  
Make sure `ExcludeAssets` on the `PackageReference` does not include `runtime`.
:::

:::info
`MapperlyAbstractionsScope` only works in projects referencing `Riok.Mapperly` directly.
Alternatively you can set a constant `MAPPERLY_ABSTRACTIONS_SCOPE_RUNTIME`:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <DefineConstants>$(DefineConstants);MAPPERLY_ABSTRACTIONS_SCOPE_RUNTIME</DefineConstants>
</PropertyGroup>
```

:::

Commit message:

chore: add release channel docs and sponsorship texts

docs/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 0
description: How to install Mapperly.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import Conditional from '@site/src/components/Conditional';
import useDocusaurusContext from '@docusaurus/useDocusaurusContext';

# Installation

## Add the NuGet Package to your project

All you need to do, to install Mapperly is to add a NuGet reference pointing to the package [`Riok.Mapperly`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Riok.Mapperly).

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="csproj" label="PackageReference" default>
      <CodeBlock language="xml">{`<PackageReference Include="Riok.Mapperly" Version="${useDocusaurusContext().siteConfig.customFields.mapperlyVersion}" ExcludeAssets="runtime" PrivateAssets="all" />`}</CodeBlock>
  </TabItem>
<TabItem value="dotnet-cli" label=".NET CLI">

```bash
dotnet add package Riok.Mapperly
```

:::info
To remove the runtime dependency of Mapperly add
`ExcludeAssets="runtime"` and `PrivateAssets="all"`
to the resulting `PackageReference`.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="pkg-manager" label="Package Manager">

```powershell
Install-Package Riok.Mapperly
```

:::info
To remove the runtime dependency of Mapperly add
`ExcludeAssets="runtime"` and `PrivateAssets="all"`
to the resulting `PackageReference`.
:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Conditional condition={!useDocusaurusContext().siteConfig.customFields.environment.stable}>

:::warning
This is a prerelease version of Mapperly and is not subject to semantic release.
The API may break in any prerelease.
Checkout the latest stable version [here](https://mapperly.riok.app).
:::

</Conditional>

### Release Channels

Mapperly is distributed through two release channels:

- [**Stable Channel**](https://mapperly.riok.app): Production-ready releases with full support. Install the latest stable version for production use.
- [**Next Channel**](https://next.mapperly.riok.app): Preview releases with upcoming features and improvements. These versions may contain breaking changes and are not subject to semantic versioning. Use for testing and early access to new features.

Only the latest version released on the stable channel is fully supported.
We strive to support all .NET versions that are currently supported by Microsoft.

### Preserving the attributes at runtime

Mapperly removes the attribute references at compile time by default (they have the `ConditionalAttribute`).
If you want to preserve the attribute references at runtime
you can set the MSBuild variable `MapperlyAbstractionsScope` to `runtime`.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <MapperlyAbstractionsScope>runtime</MapperlyAbstractionsScope>
</PropertyGroup>
```

:::info
When preserving the attribute usages, the Mapperly package reference needs to include the runtime assets.  
Make sure `ExcludeAssets` on the `PackageReference` does not include `runtime`.
:::

:::info
`MapperlyAbstractionsScope` only works in projects referencing `Riok.Mapperly` directly.
Alternatively you can set a constant `MAPPERLY_ABSTRACTIONS_SCOPE_RUNTIME`:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <DefineConstants>$(DefineConstants);MAPPERLY_ABSTRACTIONS_SCOPE_RUNTIME</DefineConstants>
</PropertyGroup>
```

:::
