.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: 'bug'
assignees: ''
---

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**Declaration code**
```csharp
// Relevant code of the Mapperly definition and all relevant classes
```

**Actual relevant generated code**
```csharp
// Actual relevant code generated by Mapperly
// see also https://mapperly.riok.app/docs/configuration/generated-source/
```

**Expected relevant generated code**
```csharp
// The generated code how you expect it to look like
```

**Environment (please complete the following information):**
- Mapperly Version: [e.g. 1.0.1]
- Nullable reference types: [e.g. enabled]
- .NET Version: [e.g. .NET 6.0.102]
- Target Framework: [e.g. .net6.0]
- Compiler Version: [e.g. 4.8.0-3.23524.11 (f43cd10b), obtain with `#error version` in any `.cs` file]
- C# Language Version: [e.g. 12.0]
- IDE: [e.g. Visual Studio v17.5.2 or Rider 2023.1]
- OS: [e.g. macOS 13.3]

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.

Commit message:

improve bugfix issue template (#1463)
* ensure code was tested with latest available mapperly version

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: 'bug'
assignees: ''
---

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**Declaration code**
```csharp
// Relevant code of the Mapperly definition and all relevant classes
```

**Actual relevant generated code**
```csharp
// Actual relevant code generated by Mapperly
// see also https://mapperly.riok.app/docs/configuration/generated-source/
```

**Expected relevant generated code**
```csharp
// The generated code how you expect it to look like
```

**Environment (please complete the following information):**
- Mapperly Version: [e.g. 1.0.1, be sure to test the latest available version incl. pre-releases]
- Nullable reference types: [e.g. enabled]
- .NET Version: [e.g. .NET 6.0.102]
- Target Framework: [e.g. .net6.0]
- Compiler Version: [e.g. 4.8.0-3.23524.11 (f43cd10b), obtain with `#error version` in any `.cs` file]
- C# Language Version: [e.g. 12.0]
- IDE: [e.g. Visual Studio v17.5.2 or Rider 2023.1]
- OS: [e.g. macOS 13.3]

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.
