docs/docs/contributing/common-tasks.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
description: Step by step guides for common tasks one may encounter when contributing to Mapperly.
---

# Common tasks

This page provides to-do lists for some common tasks one may encounter while contributing to Mapperly.

## New diagnostic

To introduce a new diagnostic follow these steps:

1. Ensure no existing diagnostic in `Riok.Mapperly.Diagnostics.DiagnosticDescriptors.cs` matches the new use case.
2. Create a new public static readonly entry following the existing naming and formatting style,
   as ID use `RMG<NUMBER>` with `<NUMBER>` being the highest already used number plus one.
   The highest used number can be found in `AnalyzerReleases.Shipped.md` as there may be removed diagnostics which are not present in `DiagnosticDescriptors` anymore
   but which should still not be used for new diagnostics.
3. Add the new diagnostic to `AnalyzerReleases.Shipped.md` (Mapperly does not use the `Unshipped` file).
4. Add a new documentation file at `docs/docs/configuration/analyzer-diagnostics/{id}.mdx` (as needed)
5. Add a unit test generating and asserting the added diagnostic (use `TestHelperOptions.AllowDiagnostics` and `Should().HaveDiagnostic(...).HaveAssertedAllDiagnostics()`.

It is not necessary to update the `analyzer-diagnostics/index.mdx` documentation file manually,
as it is generated automatically on the basis of the `AnalyzerReleases.Shipped.md` file.

## New public API

If new public API surface is introduced in `Riok.Mapperly.Abstractions`,
add the new API to the `PublicAPI.Shipped.txt` file directly.
Mapperly does not use the `PublicAPI.Unshipped.txt` file.

## Add support for a new roslyn version

To support a new roslyn version via multi targeting follow these steps (see also [architecture/roslyn multi targeting](./architecture.md#roslyn-multi-targeting)):

1. Include the new version in `roslyn_versions` in `build/package.sh`.
2. Create a new file `Riok.Mapperly.Roslyn$(Version).props` in `src/Riok.Mapperly` similar to the existing ones
   and define constants and include dependencies as needed.
3. Update the default `ROSLYN_VERSION` in `src/Riok.Mapperly/Riok.Mapperly.csproj`.
4. Update the `Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.CSharp` dependency version.
5. Adjust the .NET version matrix of the `integration-test` GitHub Actions job (defined in `.github/workflows/test.yml`)
   to include a dotnet version which is based on the added Roslyn version.
6. Adjust the .NET version in the `global.json` file as needed.
7. Add the new version in `Riok.Mapperly.IntegrationTests.Helpers.Versions` and `Riok.Mapperly.IntegrationTests.BaseMapperTest.GetCurrentVersion`.
8. If generated code changes based on the new Roslyn version,
   adjust the `VersionedSnapshotAttribute`s as needed.
9. Adjust the documentation as needed.
10. Add new preprocessor constants to `.csharpierrc.yaml`.
11. Add new GitHub required checks as needed (needs to be done by a maintainer).

## Mapping syntax

Mapperly Mappings use Roslyn syntax trees.
[RoslynQuoter](https://roslynquoter.azurewebsites.net/) and [SharpLab](https://sharplab.io/)
are fantastic tools to understand and work with Roslyn syntax trees.
The `Riok.Mapperly.Emit.Syntax.SyntaxFactoryHelper` and `Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.CSharp.SyntaxFactory` classes help building these syntax trees.

Commit message:

chore: replace PublicApiAnalyzer with snapshot test (#1497)
Replaces the PublicApiAnalyzer with a snapshot test.
This simplifies the handling and detection of public api changes.
There is no need to keep separate files for unshipped and shipped apis,
no need to move generated api changes from one file to another,
and regular c# syntax is used (including syntax highlighting of editors).

docs/docs/contributing/common-tasks.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
description: Step by step guides for common tasks one may encounter when contributing to Mapperly.
---

# Common tasks

This page provides todo lists for some common tasks one may encounter while contributing to Mapperly.

## New diagnostic

To introduce a new diagnostic follow these steps:

1. Ensure no existing diagnostic in `Riok.Mapperly.Diagnostics.DiagnosticDescriptors.cs` matches the new use case.
2. Create a new public static readonly entry following the existing naming and formatting style,
   as ID use `RMG<NUMBER>` with `<NUMBER>` being the highest already used number plus one.
   The highest used number can be found in `AnalyzerReleases.Shipped.md` as there may be removed diagnostics which are not present in `DiagnosticDescriptors` anymore
   but which should still not be used for new diagnostics.
3. Add the new diagnostic to `AnalyzerReleases.Shipped.md` (Mapperly does not use the `Unshipped` file).
4. Add a new documentation file at `docs/docs/configuration/analyzer-diagnostics/{id}.mdx` (as needed)
5. Add a unit test generating and asserting the added diagnostic (use `TestHelperOptions.AllowDiagnostics` and `Should().HaveDiagnostic(...).HaveAssertedAllDiagnostics()`.

It is not necessary to update the `analyzer-diagnostics/index.mdx` documentation file manually,
as it is generated automatically on the basis of the `AnalyzerReleases.Shipped.md` file.

## New public API

If new public API surface is introduced in `Riok.Mapperly.Abstractions` or existing API surface is modified,
the `PublicApiTest` snapshot test needs to be updated.  
See also [VerifyTests](./tests.md#verifytests).

## Add support for a new roslyn version

To support a new roslyn version via multi targeting follow these steps (see also [architecture/roslyn multi targeting](./architecture.md#roslyn-multi-targeting)):

1. Include the new version in `roslyn_versions` in `build/package.sh`.
2. Create a new file `Riok.Mapperly.Roslyn$(Version).props` in `src/Riok.Mapperly` similar to the existing ones
   and define constants and include dependencies as needed.
3. Update the default `ROSLYN_VERSION` in `src/Riok.Mapperly/Riok.Mapperly.csproj`.
4. Update the `Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.CSharp` dependency version.
5. Adjust the .NET version matrix of the `integration-test` GitHub Actions job (defined in `.github/workflows/test.yml`)
   to include a dotnet version which is based on the added Roslyn version.
6. Adjust the .NET version in the `global.json` file as needed.
7. Add the new version in `Riok.Mapperly.IntegrationTests.Helpers.Versions` and `Riok.Mapperly.IntegrationTests.BaseMapperTest.GetCurrentVersion`.
8. If generated code changes based on the new Roslyn version,
   adjust the `VersionedSnapshotAttribute`s as needed.
9. Adjust the documentation as needed.
10. Add new preprocessor constants to `.csharpierrc.yaml`.
11. Add new GitHub required checks as needed (needs to be done by a maintainer).

## Mapping syntax

Mapperly Mappings use Roslyn syntax trees.
[RoslynQuoter](https://roslynquoter.azurewebsites.net/) and [SharpLab](https://sharplab.io/)
are fantastic tools to understand and work with Roslyn syntax trees.
The `Riok.Mapperly.Emit.Syntax.SyntaxFactoryHelper` and `Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.CSharp.SyntaxFactory` classes help building these syntax trees.
