docs/docs/configuration/enum.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
description: Map enums
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Enum mappings

An enum mapping can be customized by setting the strategy to use.
Apply the `MapEnumAttribute` and pass the strategy to be used for this enum.
It is also possible to set the strategy for the entire mapper via the `MapperAttribute`.
Available strategies:

| Name                | Description                                                                 |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ByValue             | Matches enum entries by their values (default)                              |
| ByValueCheckDefined | Matches enum entries by their values, checks if the target value is defined |
| ByName              | Matches enum entries by their exact names                                   |

The `IgnoreCase` property allows to opt in for case insensitive mappings (defaults to `false`).

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="global" label="Global (mapper level)" default>
  
  Applied to all enums mapped inside this mapper.
  
  ```csharp
  // highlight-start
  [Mapper(EnumMappingStrategy = EnumMappingStrategy.ByName, EnumMappingIgnoreCase = true)]
  // highlight-end
  public partial class CarMapper
  {
      ...
  }
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="enum" label="Enum (mapping method level)">
  
  Applied to the specific enum mapped by this method.
  Attribute is only valid on mapping method with enums as parameters.
  
  ```csharp
  [Mapper]
  public partial class CarMapper
  {
      // highlight-start
      [MapEnum(EnumMappingStrategy.ByName, IgnoreCase = true)]
      // highlight-end
      public partial CarMakeDto MapMake(CarMake make);
  }
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Manually mapped enum values

To explicitly map enum values the `MapEnumValueAttibute` can be used.
Attribute is only valid on mapping methods with enums as parameters.

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    [MapEnum(EnumMappingStrategy.ByName)]
    // highlight-start
    [MapEnumValue(CarFeature.AWD, CarFeatureDto.AllWheelDrive)]
    // highlight-end
    public partial CarFeatureDto MapFeature(CarFeature feature);
}
```

## Ignore enum values

To ignore an enum value the `MapperIgnoreSourceValue` or `MapperIgnoreTargetValue` attributes can be used.
This is especially useful when applying [strict enum mappings](#strict-enum-mappings).

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    // highlight-start
    [MapperIgnoreSourceValue(Fruit.Apple)]
    [MapperIgnoreTargetValue(FruitDto.Pineapple)]
    // highlight-end
    public partial FruitDto Map(Fruit source);
}
```

## Fallback value

To map to a fallback value instead of throwing when encountering an unknown value,
the `FallbackValue` property on the `MapEnum` attribute can be used.

`FallbackValue` is supported by `ByName` and `ByValueCheckDefined`.

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    // highlight-start
    [MapEnum(EnumMappingStrategy.ByName, FallbackValue = CarFeatureDto.Unknown)]
    // highlight-end
    public partial CarFeatureDto MapFeature(CarFeature feature);
}
```

## Strict enum mappings

To enforce strict enum mappings
(all source enum values have to be mapped to a target enum value
and all target enum values have to be mapped from a source enum value)
set the following two EditorConfig settings (see also [analyzer diagnostics](./analyzer-diagnostics/index.mdx)):

```editorconfig title=".editorconfig"
[*.cs]
dotnet_diagnostic.RMG037.severity = error # Unmapped target enum value
dotnet_diagnostic.RMG038.severity = error # Unmapped source enum value
```

### One side strict enum member mappings

To enforce strict enum member mappings on only either the source or the target,
the `RequiredMappingStrategy` can be used.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="global" label="Global (mapper level)" default>
    
        Sets the `RequiredMappingStrategy` for all methods within the mapper,
        by default it is `Both` requiring all members to be mapped.
        This can be overriden by individual mapping methods using `MapperRequiredMappingAttribute`.
    
        ```csharp
        // highlight-start
        [Mapper(RequiredMappingStrategy = RequiredMappingStrategy.Source)]
        // highlight-end
        public partial class CarMapper
        {
            ...
        }
        ```
    
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="local" label="Local (mapping method level)">
    
        Applied to the specific mapping method.
    
        ```csharp
        [Mapper]
        public partial class CarMapper
        {
            // highlight-start
            [MapperRequiredMapping(RequiredMappingStrategy.Source)]
            // highlight-end
            public partial CarFeatureDto MapCar(CarFeature feature);
        }
        ```
    
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

feat!: strict mappings by default
Changes the default severity of RMG012, RMG020, RMG037 and RMG038 to warning.

docs/docs/configuration/enum.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
description: Map enums
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Enum mappings

An enum mapping can be customized by setting the strategy to use.
Apply the `MapEnumAttribute` and pass the strategy to be used for this enum.
It is also possible to set the strategy for the entire mapper via the `MapperAttribute`.
Available strategies:

| Name                | Description                                                                 |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ByValue             | Matches enum entries by their values (default)                              |
| ByValueCheckDefined | Matches enum entries by their values, checks if the target value is defined |
| ByName              | Matches enum entries by their exact names                                   |

The `IgnoreCase` property allows to opt in for case insensitive mappings (defaults to `false`).

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="global" label="Global (mapper level)" default>
  
  Applied to all enums mapped inside this mapper.
  
  ```csharp
  // highlight-start
  [Mapper(EnumMappingStrategy = EnumMappingStrategy.ByName, EnumMappingIgnoreCase = true)]
  // highlight-end
  public partial class CarMapper
  {
      ...
  }
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="enum" label="Enum (mapping method level)">
  
  Applied to the specific enum mapped by this method.
  Attribute is only valid on mapping method with enums as parameters.
  
  ```csharp
  [Mapper]
  public partial class CarMapper
  {
      // highlight-start
      [MapEnum(EnumMappingStrategy.ByName, IgnoreCase = true)]
      // highlight-end
      public partial CarMakeDto MapMake(CarMake make);
  }
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Manually mapped enum values

To explicitly map enum values the `MapEnumValueAttibute` can be used.
Attribute is only valid on mapping methods with enums as parameters.

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    [MapEnum(EnumMappingStrategy.ByName)]
    // highlight-start
    [MapEnumValue(CarFeature.AWD, CarFeatureDto.AllWheelDrive)]
    // highlight-end
    public partial CarFeatureDto MapFeature(CarFeature feature);
}
```

## Ignore enum values

To ignore an enum value the `MapperIgnoreSourceValue` or `MapperIgnoreTargetValue` attributes can be used.
This is especially useful when applying [strict enum mappings](#strict-enum-mappings).

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    // highlight-start
    [MapperIgnoreSourceValue(Fruit.Apple)]
    [MapperIgnoreTargetValue(FruitDto.Pineapple)]
    // highlight-end
    public partial FruitDto Map(Fruit source);
}
```

## Fallback value

To map to a fallback value instead of throwing when encountering an unknown value,
the `FallbackValue` property on the `MapEnum` attribute can be used.

`FallbackValue` is supported by `ByName` and `ByValueCheckDefined`.

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    // highlight-start
    [MapEnum(EnumMappingStrategy.ByName, FallbackValue = CarFeatureDto.Unknown)]
    // highlight-end
    public partial CarFeatureDto MapFeature(CarFeature feature);
}
```

## One side strict enum member mappings

By default Mapperly emits diagnostics with a severity of warning if there are unmapped source or target enum members.
To enforce strict enum member mappings on only either the source or the target,
the `RequiredMappingStrategy` can be used.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="global" label="Global (mapper level)" default>
    
        Sets the `RequiredMappingStrategy` for all methods within the mapper,
        by default it is `Both` requiring all members to be mapped.
        This can be overriden by individual mapping methods using `MapperRequiredMappingAttribute`.
    
        ```csharp
        // highlight-start
        [Mapper(RequiredMappingStrategy = RequiredMappingStrategy.Source)]
        // highlight-end
        public partial class CarMapper
        {
            ...
        }
        ```
    
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="local" label="Local (mapping method level)">
    
        Applied to the specific mapping method.
    
        ```csharp
        [Mapper]
        public partial class CarMapper
        {
            // highlight-start
            [MapperRequiredMapping(RequiredMappingStrategy.Source)]
            // highlight-end
            public partial CarFeatureDto MapCar(CarFeature feature);
        }
        ```
    
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>
