docs/docs/configuration/reference-handling.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 11
description: Use reference handling to handle reference loops
---

# Reference handling

Mapperly can support mapping object structures with circular references.
To opt in for reference handling set `UseReferenceHandling` to `true`:

```csharp
// highlight-start
[Mapper(UseReferenceHandling = true)]
// highlight-end
public partial class CarMapper
{
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car);
}
```

This enables the usage of a default reference handler
which reuses the same target object instance if encountered the same source object instance.

## Custom reference handler

To use a custom `IReferenceHandler` implementation,
a parameter of the type `Riok.Mapperly.Abstractions.ReferenceHandling.IReferenceHandler`
annotated with the `Riok.Mapperly.Abstractions.ReferenceHandling.ReferenceHandlerAttribute`
can be added to the mapping method.

```csharp
// highlight-start
[Mapper(UseReferenceHandling = true)]
// highlight-end
public partial class CarMapper
{
    // highlight-start
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car, [ReferenceHandler] IReferenceHandler myRefHandler);
    // highlight-end
}
```

## User implemented mappings

To make use of the `IReferenceHandler` in a user implemented mapping method,
add a parameter as described in the section "[Custom reference handler](#custom-reference-handler)".

Commit message:

feat: remove runtime dependency (#1027)
This adds the conditional attribute to the attributes and allows the removal of the runtime assets of Mapperly (`ExcludeAssets="runtime"`), except when using reference handling. Removes the templates since they are not needed anymore. The constant `MAPPERLY_ABSTRACTIONS_SCOPE_RUNTIME` allows to keep the attributes at runtime.

docs/docs/configuration/reference-handling.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 11
description: Use reference handling to handle reference loops
---

# Reference handling

Mapperly can support mapping object structures with circular references.
To opt in for reference handling set `UseReferenceHandling` to `true`:

```csharp
// highlight-start
[Mapper(UseReferenceHandling = true)]
// highlight-end
public partial class CarMapper
{
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car);
}
```

This enables the usage of a default reference handler
which reuses the same target object instance if encountered the same source object instance.

:::info
When using reference handling, the Mapperly package reference needs to include the runtime assets
(the runtime assets are needed for the reference handler implementation).  
Make sure `ExcludeAssets` on the `PackageReference` does not include `runtime` when using reference handling.
:::

## Custom reference handler

To use a custom `IReferenceHandler` implementation,
a parameter of the type `Riok.Mapperly.Abstractions.ReferenceHandling.IReferenceHandler`
annotated with the `Riok.Mapperly.Abstractions.ReferenceHandling.ReferenceHandlerAttribute`
can be added to the mapping method.

```csharp
// highlight-start
[Mapper(UseReferenceHandling = true)]
// highlight-end
public partial class CarMapper
{
    // highlight-start
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car, [ReferenceHandler] IReferenceHandler myRefHandler);
    // highlight-end
}
```

## User implemented mappings

To make use of the `IReferenceHandler` in a user implemented mapping method,
add a parameter as described in the section "[Custom reference handler](#custom-reference-handler)".
