docs/docs/configuration/user-implemented-methods.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
description: Manually implement mappings
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# User-implemented mapping methods

If Mapperly cannot generate a mapping, one can implement it manually simply by providing a method body in the mapper declaration:

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car);

    private int TimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Hours;
}
```

Whenever Mapperly needs a mapping from `TimeSpan` to `int` inside the `CarMapper` implementation, it will use the provided implementation.
If there are multiple user-implemented mapping methods suiting the given type-pair, by default, the first one is used.
This can be customized by using [automatic user-implemented mapping method discovery](#automatic-user-implemented-mapping-method-discovery)
and [default user-implemented mapping method](#default-user-implemented-mapping-method).

## Automatic user-implemented mapping method discovery

By default, user implemented mapping methods are discovered automatically.
This can be disabled by setting `AutoUserMappings` to `false`.
With `AutoUserMappings` disabled, only methods marked by the `UserMappingAttribute` are discovered by Mapperly.

```csharp
// highlight-start
[Mapper(AutoUserMappings = false)]
// highlight-end
public partial class CarMapper
{
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car);

    // highlight-start
    // mark as user-implemented mapping
    [UserMapping]
    // highlight-end
    private int TimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Hours;

    private int IgnoredTimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Minutes / 60;
}
```

The `AutoUserMappings` value also applies to the usage of external mappers:
With `AutoUserMappings` enabled all methods with a mapping method signature are discovered.
With `AutoUserMappings` disabled, only methods with a `UserMappingAttribute` and,
if the containing class has a `MapperAttribute`, partial methods are discovered.

## Ignoring a user-implemented mapping method

To ignore a user-implemented mapping method with enabled `AutoUserMappings`,
`[UserMapping(Ignore = true)]` can be applied.

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car);

    // highlight-start
    // discovered and used by default (AutoUserMappings is true by default)
    // highlight-end
    private int TimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Hours;

    // highlight-start
    // ignored user-implemented mapping
    [UserMapping(Ignore = true)]
    // highlight-end
    private int IgnoredTimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Minutes / 60;
}
```

## Default user-implemented mapping method

Whenever Mapperly will need a mapping for a given type-pair,
it will use the default user-implemented mapping.
A user-implemented mapping is considered the default mapping for a type-pair
if `Default = true` is set on the `UserMapping` attribute.
If no user-implemented mapping with `Default = true` exists and `AutoUserMappings` is enabled,
the first user-implemented mapping which has an unspecified `Default` value is used.
For each type-pair only one default mapping can exist.

If multiple mappings exist for the same type-pair without a default mapping, `RMG060` is reported.
By default `RMG060` has a severity of warning,
which can be changed using the [`.editorconfig`](./analyzer-diagnostics/index.mdx#editorconfig).

## Map properties using user-implemented mappings

See [user-implemented property conversions](./mapper.mdx#user-implemented-property-mappings).

## Use external mappings

Mapperly can also consider mappings implemented in other classes.
In order for Mapperly to find the mappings, they must be made known with `UseMapper` / `UseStaticMapper`.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="static" label="Static">
  
  For static mappings, `UseStaticMapper` can be used:
  
  ```csharp
  [Mapper]
  // highlight-start
  [UseStaticMapper(typeof(BananaMapper))]
  // highlight-end
  public static partial class BoxMapper
  {
    public static partial BananaBox MapBananaBox(BananaBoxDto dto);
  }
  
  public static class BananaMapper
  {
    public static Banana MapBanana(BananaDto dto)
      => new Banana(dto.Weigth);
  }
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="instance" label="Instance">
  
  To use the mappings of an object instance `UseMapper` can be used:
  
  ```csharp
  [Mapper]
  public static partial class BoxMapper
  {
      // highlight-start
      [UseMapper]
      private readonly BananaMapper _bananaMapper = new();
      // highlight-end
  
      public static partial BananaBox MapBananaBox(BananaBoxDto dto);
  }
  
  public static class BananaMapper
  {
      public static Banana MapBanana(BananaDto dto)
          => new Banana(dto.Weigth);
  }
  ```
  
  :::info
  The initialization of fields and properties annotated with `UseMapper` needs to be done by the user.
  :::
  
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Whenever Mapperly needs a mapping from `BananaBox` to `BananaBoxDto` inside the `BoxMapper` implementation,
it will use the provided implementation by the `BananaMapper`.

Used mappers themselves can be Mapperly backed classes.  
The [`AutoUserMappings`](#automatic-user-implemented-mapping-method-discovery) value also applies to the usage of external mappers.

Commit message:

feat: Inline user implemented queryable mapping expressions
Tries to inline user-implemented methods with an expression body into queryable expression mappings.
This leads to better query mappings by EF Core and should result in less data loaded.
If the inlining fails for some reason (e.g. not a valid c# expression tree), RMG068 is reported.

This works with a syntax rewriter (InlineExpressionRewriter) which
* extends type names to their fully qualified names (since the using statements are not present in the generated code)
* expands extension method invocations (since the using statements are not present in the generated code)
* extracts invocations of other user-defined mappings, to be inlined by the mapping itself
* tries to assume whether the given code can be successfully inlined in a c# expression tree by checking the presence of given syntax declarations

Additionally a new mapping is added (UserImplementedInlinedExpressionMapping) which represents an inlined version of a user implemented mapping.
When building the mapping, it rewrites the source parameter of the user-method to the actual source of the mapping.
Additionally mapping invocations extracted by the InlineExpressionRewriter are inlined.

Fixes #953.

docs/docs/configuration/user-implemented-methods.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
description: Manually implement mappings
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# User-implemented mapping methods

If Mapperly cannot generate a mapping, one can implement it manually simply by providing a method body in the mapper declaration:

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car);

    private int TimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Hours;
}
```

Whenever Mapperly needs a mapping from `TimeSpan` to `int` inside the `CarMapper` implementation, it will use the provided implementation.
The types of the user-implemented mapping method need to match the types to map exactly, including nullability.

If there are multiple user-implemented mapping methods suiting the given type-pair, by default, the first one is used.
This can be customized by using [automatic user-implemented mapping method discovery](#automatic-user-implemented-mapping-method-discovery)
and [default user-implemented mapping method](#default-user-implemented-mapping-method).

## Automatic user-implemented mapping method discovery

By default, user implemented mapping methods are discovered automatically.
This can be disabled by setting `AutoUserMappings` to `false`.
With `AutoUserMappings` disabled, only methods marked by the `UserMappingAttribute` are discovered by Mapperly.

```csharp
// highlight-start
[Mapper(AutoUserMappings = false)]
// highlight-end
public partial class CarMapper
{
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car);

    // highlight-start
    // mark as user-implemented mapping
    [UserMapping]
    // highlight-end
    private int TimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Hours;

    private int IgnoredTimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Minutes / 60;
}
```

The `AutoUserMappings` value also applies to the usage of external mappers:
With `AutoUserMappings` enabled all methods with a mapping method signature are discovered.
With `AutoUserMappings` disabled, only methods with a `UserMappingAttribute` and,
if the containing class has a `MapperAttribute`, partial methods are discovered.

## Ignoring a user-implemented mapping method

To ignore a user-implemented mapping method with enabled `AutoUserMappings`,
`[UserMapping(Ignore = true)]` can be applied.

```csharp
[Mapper]
public partial class CarMapper
{
    public partial CarDto CarToCarDto(Car car);

    // highlight-start
    // discovered and used by default (AutoUserMappings is true by default)
    // highlight-end
    private int TimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Hours;

    // highlight-start
    // ignored user-implemented mapping
    [UserMapping(Ignore = true)]
    // highlight-end
    private int IgnoredTimeSpanToHours(TimeSpan t) => t.Minutes / 60;
}
```

## Default user-implemented mapping method

Whenever Mapperly will need a mapping for a given type-pair,
it will use the default user-implemented mapping.
A user-implemented mapping is considered the default mapping for a type-pair
if `Default = true` is set on the `UserMapping` attribute.
If no user-implemented mapping with `Default = true` exists and `AutoUserMappings` is enabled,
the first user-implemented mapping which has an unspecified `Default` value is used.
For each type-pair only one default mapping can exist.

If multiple mappings exist for the same type-pair without a default mapping, `RMG060` is reported.
By default `RMG060` has a severity of warning,
which can be changed using the [`.editorconfig`](./analyzer-diagnostics/index.mdx#editorconfig).

## Map properties using user-implemented mappings

See [user-implemented property conversions](./mapper.mdx#user-implemented-property-mappings).

## Use external mappings

Mapperly can also consider mappings implemented in other classes.
In order for Mapperly to find the mappings, they must be made known with `UseMapper` / `UseStaticMapper`.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="static" label="Static">
  
  For static mappings, `UseStaticMapper` can be used:
  
  ```csharp
  [Mapper]
  // highlight-start
  [UseStaticMapper(typeof(BananaMapper))]
  // highlight-end
  public static partial class BoxMapper
  {
    public static partial BananaBox MapBananaBox(BananaBoxDto dto);
  }
  
  public static class BananaMapper
  {
    public static Banana MapBanana(BananaDto dto)
      => new Banana(dto.Weigth);
  }
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="instance" label="Instance">
  
  To use the mappings of an object instance `UseMapper` can be used:
  
  ```csharp
  [Mapper]
  public static partial class BoxMapper
  {
      // highlight-start
      [UseMapper]
      private readonly BananaMapper _bananaMapper = new();
      // highlight-end
  
      public static partial BananaBox MapBananaBox(BananaBoxDto dto);
  }
  
  public static class BananaMapper
  {
      public static Banana MapBanana(BananaDto dto)
          => new Banana(dto.Weigth);
  }
  ```
  
  :::info
  The initialization of fields and properties annotated with `UseMapper` needs to be done by the user.
  :::
  
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Whenever Mapperly needs a mapping from `BananaBox` to `BananaBoxDto` inside the `BoxMapper` implementation,
it will use the provided implementation by the `BananaMapper`.

Used mappers themselves can be Mapperly backed classes.  
The [`AutoUserMappings`](#automatic-user-implemented-mapping-method-discovery) value also applies to the usage of external mappers.
